those opposed
nay okay so the motion carries the
document taxes
with optional
now does that include five does option
eight include five options
okay
thank you so a passed
this is trustee Hull I'll go back to
what we said um we were going to wait
and see what isba actually indicated
um
what they would they're going to write a
policy they were going to come up with
one it should be coming up shortly it
will be going through our the district's
attorneys the ones that we use not
separate attorneys I would prefer
um because I I appreciate the mother who
spoke here that not everyone is not
everyone is the same
and we need to love all our kids and I
think that um that we will
I think that isba's policy that they'll
bring forth will be within the
guidelines of the legislative intent but
also
respectful of companies
if I could just comment for a minute
this was done by an educational analyst
in Boise it was over two weeks and he
referred it to legal to make sure that
the legality of it was correct and it
does have in each point it says or
expressly agreed in writing so it allows
for
other in other words or
expressly agreed in writing by District
administrator all all each one of those
paragraphs ends that way so it takes
that into account
it the legal that you're referring to is
not our District's attorney that's
correct I don't know who it was I didn't
ask him so I mean I would I would make
sure that it goes through our district
attorney first before we looked at this
industry that any just if any attorney
or the attorneys come up with different
opinions I think it needs to go through
for our liabilities they need to go
through the district attorney chair I
make a motion that we table this until
we talk to our legal attorney
and get clarifications
I'm sorry
okay so this has been first by trustee
Burton second by trustee ball
those in favor of table lists until our
Google looks at it please say aye
aye those opposed
okay the motion carries we will table
this until our
um
okay next
I need a motion to bring consideration
and approval of Levy Next Step
make a motion to bring to the table
consideration of people of living next
steps just involvements a motion to
bring this to the table do I have a
second
I'll second okay interesting part in
seconds
comments
I
I know we can
um I know we can potentially ask for a
financial emergency I would prefer
giving
um
our business manager direction to look
at as we had discussed during the work
session
using the fund balance and the Esser
funds to try to make that make things
work and better it's not perfect
obviously
this is a big cut you know it's
I mean I'm not going to go into the
details
but obviously I would have preferred
seeing the muddy pass so we don't have
to move forward in this way but
um
I would say his steps that the outlines
I would look at I don't I understand and
I know especially when we go into four
day school week how important
extracurricular activities are going to
be for kids because we're losing we
don't have that fifth day that kids are
in school so I would seriously have us
look at after we go through and try to
meet the budget for the deadline for
right now is what items we want to what
we should be considering for an August
election or an August vote and bring
that smaller risk back whether it be the
extracurricular co-curricular because
it's bringing back that bus bring back
those other items but I
I know people have talked about this is
a community this school district even
though people from school private school
for the religious schools
education skills are very much make a
community help make a community and I
also think we're going to have to look
outside the box on how we fulfill those
gaps but I would seriously have us look
at the August election date for putting
some things on there that it would be a
smaller Levy but also trying to look at
retaining in
we're not going to recruitment Okay so
we have
options what I'm going to call option A
is what Steffy outlined in our work
session which would be
helping out stepping the
using fund balance is that the option
fund balance
and uh funds
look at that okay option b
would be to do
nothing
uh B would be
depending on
the
the states
approval would be putting the board in a
position to declare Financial emergency
um and it may be putting in the board in
a position to have to declare Financial
emergency depending on the significant
the depending on the cuts that we're
looking at whether in Staffing or
salaries so
okay
and there would be an option option C
I think that the
I mean the board could come up with an
option C I would think that the two
options at this point in time would be
option A or option b and at that point
looking at what the priorities are and
after discussing in that the board work
session prior to this business meeting
we've identified potential cuts as a
result of levy results
and we've also identified these salary
Matrix matrices shortfalls so the board
would with either option have to be
looking back at priorities and what
either one of those options would be
covering
okay what about an option C as running
in a smaller Levy portion in August
would that be an option so that would
not be an option C at this point in time
that would fall into option A or option
b it's absolutely an option but it would
be an option after one of those
decisions we have to arrive at a
balanced budget by June 30th uh August
does not
give us that revenue and time
or that anticipation for Revenue
we could amend a budget correct
correct
but I know it's late you are correct the
board absolutely could go through an
amended budget process
um to add that that Revenue in but I
will repeat just one more time the board
must arrive at a balanced budget by June
30th the budget hearing is set for June
28th so a counterpart to option A so A1
or a little one and a little two
maybe a slight decrease
in that increase of salary from 17 or
17.5 percent
and seeing if it allows for to maybe I
know that we've jumped a bit and would
love to keep at that level but could we
go to 15 and Reserve preserve more jobs
or admin Administration so I don't know
if there could be a slight adjustment
there that could help you know even if
we didn't go up the full amount that
would go up a little bit but not quite
as much
nobody gives her directions and look at
another another percentage that might
not be quite as much
yes you absolutely have to provide that
direction tonight because we're running
out of time it takes time to generate
these numbers uh so with that being said
I do want to uh
I guess restate that that 17.5 percent
was a byproduct percentage of taking the
state allocations and those increases
as well as the board's values and
directions so basically what we're doing
at this point in time
um little one or little I however you
want to break it down as potential I
think trustee Hall you said for options
for a
um so under option A would be balancing
salary
uh with the
uh
with what what are you looking at
balancing salary with Staffing as well
as items that were on the ballot what
what balance am I looking at because
that will lead me to be able to generate
a number
I mean I don't know if it would be more
stuff
excuse me not more Staffing
current Staffing current status yes
yeah nothing but
I know that on the levy it was 400
000 for
for the extracurricular
let's see it was 464
000 413 for the extra creditors
um
I know that's important but
maintaining our current Staffing into
balancing it to me it's balancing that
can we get anything for the athletic
group co-curricular activities
um
by holding down some of the salary on
the other piece yeah I mean I mean it's
just it is a balancing act yeah and it
was juggling so could we get some
co-curricular extracurricular at least
figured out from this budget that's
going in on May 28th and then
um but at the same time the state and I
know people don't like this but the
state does not
extracurriculars
is worth being paid for I disagree with
that but at the same time we need to
make sure that we maintain the current
staff we have if we need to support our
kids in just the daily operations of the
classroom and even I think classroom
size is critical too not making our size
of our classrooms as big so it's
unfortunately to me it's a trade-off can
we bring that level down just a little
bit and be able to balance not having
such large classroom sizes okay so so
the other piece but I didn't get to
emphasize in or didn't emphasize in the
board work session is going to be that
option does potentially exhaust fund
balance
okay
so we have we have actually just one
option that's the balancing salary to
keep current Staffing with with the fund
balance
correct
um
what I heard was using the fund balance
and Esser funds to balance salary
Staffing and extracurricular
co-curricular activity needs you know we
may not obviously we can't make a do all
but can we get a little bit of the
co-curricular extra can we do part of
that that might and maybe that's up to
staff
and the leadership team to say here's
the part that we think is really
important to maintain but again we're
going to a four-day school week
hopefully you know we're going to the
four-day school week
Athletics is important to kids it builds
you know rounds out our kids
um
so I guess what can we offer you know
I'm asking a lot of you I know so then
and I I appreciate uh the guidance right
now so another piece that I would like
Direction on is going to be the
the board had identified and they used
the phrase uh hold harmless
to Staffing for going to the four day
work week and that was hold harmless in
terms of comparing compensation packages
from fiscal year 2023 to fiscal year
2024 is that still the intention
that's going to affect how low we can
drop those salaries in order to balance
I mean I
hold harmless I mean if it's a hold
harmless against the extracurricular
co-curricular
it was comparing compensation packages
are we trying to hold harmless right now
can we both harmless
I don't think we can do both between old
harmless and trying to get some
extracurricular co-curricular activities
on the table if we try any even half of
it and I don't think we can do both I
don't want to not hold I I mean I know
full formless is what we would hold
um
I
um I I guess I would want to hear from
the
leadership I think in some ways the
leadership team or the you know the
community
so I think too if I may
um the hold harmless was very important
for classified staff because moving to
the four day there was concern that they
would lose that fifth day of pay but it
was understood from what we heard at
board meetings that the the push would
be to raise the salary schedule so that
it wouldn't change the pay of our
classified staff and talking in an admin
meeting today
one of the directors said that their
classified
employees they watch their paycheck
regularly even if it's a dollar less
they it's very disturbing and and that
um
in that group they're having a hard time
keeping people employed and staying in
the facilities and department and so
just thinking about that again
I know that
and and Miss Parker mentioned it tonight
and I mentioned it I know that the
salaries look like a lot I know that it
feels like a lot but the truth of the
matter is
it takes a lot of people
to service the kids in the district and
um
so if you start
moving those salaries down then I think
the reality is you'll real we'll have a
hard time
keeping people
attracting people
so I don't know
we're gonna have to make Cuts somewhere
though there's a huge gap in you aren't
I mean there's you are sure
without the levy passing are incredible
so we are going to have to make some
decisions especially if we have less
than three weeks to get this on there so
I don't mind
yes
if you if so the question was if you
could even do uh extracurricular with
Title IX requirements and I think what
they're talking about is if you offer if
the high school offers football in the
fall and Matt you can probably speak to
this better than I can then you need to
offer
you know volleyball or another sport the
two sports
is that correct
right
so for example most schools uh if you
have a football team that has 45 half of
the time in a volleyball team number
three
on here you're a little bit out of
proportion
foreign
if we look at the two two options with
the option a fund balance with balancing
salaries to keep current Staffing
co-curricular
and hold harmless
that would be options that'd be option a
option b would be to declare Financial
emergency
to look at declaring Financial emergency
yes because there's a whole process to
that nope that's okay I just wanted to
make sure it was providing that and
option A would be including the uh
works now
it didn't work before I know now I now I
have to sit back
um
option A I think is looking at both
the fund balance and the Esser funds
that might be able to be used during
that process
and just those two because that's
potentially 2.1 million plus 1.3 million
I mean that gives us some things to work
with a little bit better
Okay so
those in favor of option A with fund
balance and S refund
balancing salaries to keep current
Staffing both regular and whole harmless
all those in favor of option eight we
say aye aye those opposed okay option A
is your is your choice but do you think
we should have a backup just in case
I will reach out to you so we'll
continue hopefully thank you for your
time in advance our budget work sessions
and you'll have something booked for you
so that we can look at what the
situation is yeah this will probably
have to massage it as we go through this
absolutely we just need to definitely
let our staffing our teachers and as
soon as we can yeah
okay if we're gonna lose teachers we
need to let them know okay so along with
that do we schedule another meeting
right now we better
because I need to get it on my calendar
and I'm on my calendar
is it the 24th or can we do well can we
do something before the 24th or no
22nd
right yeah
okay and I'm out
I'll have to join you by phone or Zoom
sorry this is a huge pivot
um
and uh there's a lot as you all know a
lot of work that goes into generating a
budget uh so I am going to have to
create a budget with the revenue
parameters that you saw before you in
the board work session
um so my preference would be that we
reach out and reconvene at some point
next week via email to schedule either a
work session or a special meeting
depending on the information I can bring
forward
perfect
and yes Stephie as you know I will Pro I
will have to join you by I will join you
but it will be by phone or by soon and
it would be my preference or go to um
Google meet or whatever understand thank
you
it's not my preference of time but
family my family does dictate sometimes
let's forget it
okay
done okay next um superintendent hiring
process do I have a motion to bring that
to the floor I'll make a motion to bring
that to the floor
superintendent hiring process
process
so in order to schedule a community form
which the board indicated that that
would be a desire the
interviews have been rescheduled for
Wednesday June 7th
so Wednesday June 7th
um
the board will meet prior to first
interview which will be posted as
executive session session or an
executive
session meeting uh will convene at 2 30
potentially two o'clock depending on
the needs of the board prior to that
so I would recommend two o'clock to get
all of the the packets to review what
needs to happen so
then the last candidate would be at 4 30
for the last applicant would be 4 30.
yes all of them are on the 7th correct
followed by the community Forum which
would be six to seven
and I would prefer because there is one
candidate that dropped out I would would
be asking the board that we interview or
have a community forum for all three
candidates not just to
I would be because before we had four
but I think we did three before and I I
think it'd be appropriate just to go
ahead and do the community Forum on all
three
especially since it's the same evening
especially since it's the same thing so
might as well just keep on rolling could
we push it back until three o'clock
okay uh so if the board chose to push it
back to three o'clock that puts the
times uh just an hour back so that the
third applicant would be
Community form from eight to
nine o'clock
on Wednesday June 7th 8 to 9. yes so it
goes interview for 1 2 30 to 3 30 so
pushing it back an hour uh would be 3
30.
and then that would mean starting the
community Forum at seven o'clock
so
if the first applicant is from seven
uh to eight
uh they're half an hours
which we know historically that it
hasn't
so the community Forum was seven to
eight eight to nine and nine to ten no
it was six to six thirty six thirty two
seven
um but we know that there's that time
that runs so we probably want to give or
take okay a few minutes in between each
I mean I would pencil out 45 minutes
each just because it's that overlap of
sorts
so we definitely can do that but it so
the guidance I heard was to push that
back another hour
again these these applicants have been
contacted twice now trying to schedule
so show up here show up at the district
office at two show up here at 6 30.
no trustee Barton uh three at three
o'clock three o'clock okay so you had to
do three so
so three and then 6 30.
okay
would you all be staying together
anyways
okay all right
yep and hopefully I do not get delayed
on the way back
yes okay all those in favor of the
um
super superintendent hiring process as
as amended please say hi hi those
opposed okay the superintendent hiring
process is again approved
okay superintendent report
so the schools are finishing up icesat
testing the district writing assessment
and the Idaho reading indicator
assessments they need to they're
finishing up that right now because it
needs to be finished in May so all of
the assessments and screeners will be
finished within the next two weeks the
district had a Quantum learning
professional development day last Friday
on May 12th there were three sessions in
our session for certified staff and then
all of the auxiliary staff had three
hours of training and then the
administration had training in the
afternoon and
the feedback from everybody was very
positive and the trainer did a good job
just some celebrations academa we had a
student that placed fourth in Nationals
and that hasn't been on the reader board
but that's really awesome
and then the 7th through 12th grade
music concert on May 15th Margie said
that she attended that I did as well and
Mr nolting did an awesome job having the
kids
choose some of the music and then just
perform and and it was a great time and
it was very crowded
at the elementary schools they had Idaho
Shakespeare Theater troop come in at
Priest Lake Elementary traveled down to
Idaho Hill and these are professional
performers who do an awesome job with
the kids and so the the play was Amelia
Earhart and so all of the kids enjoyed
that and then of course Astro day at
Priest River Elementary was a huge
success with Mr Knack and his astronaut
so there's lots of classroom field trips
and we are allowing the ones who are all
signed up to go now but we did put a
budget freeze today on
nobody can plan another field trip for
the end of the year just because of
trying to save the fund balance
and so we have students who are going to
the Water festival and the forestry Expo
here soon and then the spark Innovation
Smithsonian that's happening with the
down in Priest River
um we have the jump up day happening at
the junior high where all of our sixth
graders in the district will be coming
to the junior high on Friday
so they're excited about that and then
um jump up day at Priest Lake Elementary
will be happening and at Idaho Hill
and then on June 13th the last day of
school is a professional development day
for the district and teachers and we
will be having our second day of
training on dyslexia that is required by
the state of Idaho
and as well as the other teachers who
are not taking that class will be doing
data review and really digging down
looking at where the kids scored and
looking at our essential standards and
that continued work that is in our
five-year strategic plan
okay thank you thank you
thank you
do you have any questions
I don't no no questions at this point
good okay
any comments from Treasure okay
any comments
no it's just saying that
scholarships okay
okay
um
no comments we'll move on to uh
board members
I guess the only thing I would like to
say is to thank the staff and all the
administrators for all the hard work
that they have put in over this last
year it's not been an easy year
and really greatly appreciate you all
I know it's a challenge and
I guess I have to keep believing that
you know we've had tough discussions and
then hopefully we can come out of this
ahead I believe in this community I mean
I've lived here since 1981 and I do
believe in it
um and I believe that we can make it
better
off and we'll try to figure out the best
way to hold us together as a community
and come out stronger as a community
and we'll just have to think outside the
box I'm one of that always likes to
think outside the box a little bit so
let's just keep plugging away one foot
in front of the other and hopefully we
will make it there we'll make it might
not look exactly what we envisioned but
maybe we'll come up with something that
will fit our community but we are you
one thing I want to say is we are a
unique
community and we have to tailor our
education
to meet our community it's not one size
does not fit all
and I think sometimes people think that
one size fits all and they try to impose
that on us
and it doesn't so just remember we we'll
figure this out and we'll keep moving
forward
that's my and thank you for from out of
my heart from all that you've done
all of you have put in countless
countless hours in our business manager
Steffy has put in countless countless
countless hours so thank thank her for
that
in the comments
okay with that um
we're going to Executive session
we'll make a motion to go into executive
session okay
sessions Rusty rainbow records
[Music]